docs/tutorial-egld/egld.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# EGLD, digital gold

## What is eGold?

The currency EGLD exists as a robust, multi-sharded metadata record on the Elrond blockchain. (The upcoming rebrand will be MultiversX, but the currency will remain eGold.) It excels as a store of value, a financial utility, and a programmatic resource, due to unusually good blockchain design.

## How to get some EGLD?

You can buy it from the [Maiar App](https://maiar.com/), and you can also purchase at the [multiversx.com](https://multiversx.com) site. Once you have EGLD then you can see it in your wallet, which is a unique address, like an email account. You can interact with it from the [wallet.elrond.com](https://wallet.elrond.com) website and or the [Maiar Wallet](https://maiar.com/) (soon to be xPortal).

Individual wallets send and receive blockchain data, and there is a decentralized financial system built around using EGLD. The central Maiar Exchange (soon to be xPortal) uses EGLD to provide lending services (liquidity) for EGLD and other cryptos. Other exchanges exist to provide extra features, currencies, and tools, such as [ashswap](https://ashswap.io/), [arda.run](https://arda.run), [jexchange.io](https://jexchange.io).

## Why EGLD, Why MvX?

+ easy earnings
+ best in class blockchain architecture
+ best in class ecosystem of wallet + dapps

You can stake EGLD at 10% APY right in the Maiar App (xWallet) and you can swap it into many other cryptos with interesting projects and utilities implemented (or planned) in these exchanges. MultiversX boasts the *largest number of nodes (physical computing centers, processing records and providing redundancy) of any current decentralized blockchain*. The ease of the wallet app combined with the security and speed of the web3 dapps is what makes MvX (Elrond) stand out from other ecosystems like Cosmos, Cardano, Solana, and Ethereum.

Security comes from easy & frequent multi-fact0r authentication (just zap the QR code on your laptop screen with your phone camera) at every step of the contract signing or purchase process. The MultiversX shards record every transaction and the state (values, amounts, etc) data in multiple places using a custom blend of the best existing blockchain technologies (consensus models, rollups).

Commit message:

:bug: fixed broken referral links, ded branding

docs/tutorial-egld/egld.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# EGLD, digital gold

## What is eGold?

The currency EGLD exists as a robust, multi-sharded metadata record on the MultiversX blockchain. (You may have heard of the Elrond blockchain, which is the older branding-- the currency has remained eGold.) $EGLD excels as a store of value, a financial utility, and a programmatic resource, due to unusually good blockchain design.

## How to get some EGLD?

You can buy it from [multiversx.com](https://multiversx.com) site or directly from the xPortal wallet. Once you have $EGLD you can of course see it in your wallet, which is a unique address, like an email account. You can interact with it from the [wallet.elrond.com](https://wallet.multiversx.com) website and or the [xPortal Wallet](https://xport.al/referral/o6q0in3yh6/) (formerly Maiar wallet).

Individual wallets send and receive blockchain data, and there is a decentralized financial system built around using EGLD. The central Maiar Exchange (soon to be xPortal) uses EGLD to provide lending services (liquidity) for EGLD and other cryptos. Other exchanges exist to provide extra features, currencies, and tools, such as [QuantumX](https://www.quantumx.network/), [arda.run](https://arda.run), [jexchange.io](https://jexchange.io), [ashswap](https://ashswap.io/).

## Why EGLD, Why MvX?

+ easy earnings
+ best in class blockchain architecture
+ best in class ecosystem of wallet + dapps

You can stake EGLD at 10% APY right in the Maiar App (xWallet) and you can swap it into many other cryptos with interesting projects and utilities implemented (or planned) in these exchanges. MultiversX boasts the *largest number of nodes (physical computing centers, processing records and providing redundancy) of any current decentralized blockchain*. The ease of the wallet app combined with the security and speed of the web3 dapps is what makes MvX (Elrond) stand out from other ecosystems like Cosmos, Cardano, Solana, and Ethereum.

Security comes from easy & frequent multi-fact0r authentication (just zap the QR code on your laptop screen with your phone camera) at every step of the contract signing or purchase process. The MultiversX shards record every transaction and the state (values, amounts, etc) data in multiple places using a custom blend of the best existing blockchain technologies (consensus models, rollups).
